# SAN Airport Authority Business Intelligence Summer Internship 2025

## Goal of the project:
The goal of this project was to be able to enrich the Airport's parking transaction data with vehicle value, and vehicle specific information that could help segement customers based upon where they parked and what kind of car they drive. The project was broken down into three seperate parts: Computer-Vision / OCR model to take license plate images and transform them into a usable string of characters, ETL pipeline from snowflake taking transaction data from out current parking lot vendors and using license plate data along with Vehicle Databases API to add vehicle specific data and market value, The last part of the project was taking both the transactions and vehicle data and combining them to create a monthly snapshot table in Power BI. 

## Computer-Vision / OCR Model Explained:
The first stage of the project was building an automated script that used a custom trained computer-vision model along with an OCR reader to detect and read license plate characaters from a photo. I trained a YoloV8 model using open sourced dataset of license plates and running 100 epochs to fine-tune the model. The model first detects where a license plate is within the photo and draws a boundary box around it's approximated area, afterwards the image is then cropped to the boundary box to only contain the license plate. From here the image goes through multiple processes to make it easier for the OCR model to identify the characters from the license plate. These processes include a black and white filter and highlighting the edges of the image to help improve the OCR process. The hardest part of this project has been getting an open-source OCR model to give high accurate readings of license plates without picking up extra noise or mistaking common letters such as S & Z or B & 8. Most of the times it's able to get a partial / full license plate but with random characters / words included at the beginning or end due to the OCR model reading everything within the license plate which may include the state, license plate frame, month or year of registration expiration, so it's been difficult to get it to pull a completely perfect string that can then be used for the ETL / API enrichment pipeline.

characters from a picture and transform them into a string. The second stage was developing an ETL pipeline that takes license plate data collected from the parking vendors and enrich it with vehicle value and vehicle information using Vehicle Databases API. 
